README.md, before:

# ColoredQRCode

ColoredQRCode is a Python library for generating and decoding standard, colored, and intensity-modulated (IM) QR codes. It supports high data density and robust decoding, even after lossy compression (e.g., JPEG). The library is compatible with Python 3.9+ and uses only standard and widely available Python packages.

## Features

- Generate standard black-and-white QR codes
- Generate colored QR codes (RGB channels encode more data)
- Generate intensity-modulated (IM) colored QR codes (even higher data density)
- Decode all supported QR code types
- Robust to JPEG compression and re-encoding

## Installation

Install dependencies (preferably in a virtual environment):

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Generate a Standard QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_qr_code

img = generate_qr_code("Hello, QR!", output_path="qrcode.png")
img.show()  # Display the QR code
```

### Decode a Standard QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_qr_code

data = decode_qr_code("qrcode.png")
print(data)  # Output: Hello, QR!
```

### Generate a Colored QR Code (RGB)

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_colored_qr_code

data = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog 1234567890!@#"
img = generate_colored_qr_code(data, output_path="colored_qr.png")
img.show()
```

### Decode a Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_colored_qr_code

decoded = decode_colored_qr_code("colored_qr.png")
print(decoded)
```

### Generate an Intensity-Modulated (IM) Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_colored_qr_code_im

data = "A long string to encode with high density..."
img = generate_colored_qr_code_im(data, output_path="colored_qr_im.png")
img.show()
```

### Decode an Intensity-Modulated (IM) Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_colored_qr_code_im

decoded = decode_colored_qr_code_im("colored_qr_im.png")
print(decoded)
```

## Error Handling

If the input data is too long for the selected QR code type, a `QRCodeDataTooLongError` is raised.

## Requirements

- Python 3.9+
- See `requirements.txt` for dependencies (qrcode, Pillow, pyzbar, opencv-python)

## Testing

Run all tests with:

```sh
.venv/bin/python -m pytest
```

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Adds support for decoding from image objects and arrays
Extends all QR code decoding functions to accept file paths, PIL images,
or NumPy arrays, improving API flexibility for various workflows.
Updates documentation and tests to demonstrate and verify new input types.
Clarifies license metadata and enhances instructions for test output.

README.md, after:

# ColoredQRCode

ColoredQRCode is a Python library for generating and decoding standard, colored, and intensity-modulated (IM) QR codes. It supports high data density and robust decoding, even after lossy compression (e.g., JPEG). The library is compatible with Python 3.9+ and uses only standard and widely available Python packages.

## Features

- Generate standard black-and-white QR codes
- Generate colored QR codes (RGB channels encode more data)
- Generate intensity-modulated (IM) colored QR codes (even higher data density)
- Decode all supported QR code types
- Robust to JPEG compression and re-encoding

## Installation

Install dependencies (preferably in a virtual environment):

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Generate a Standard QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_qr_code

img = generate_qr_code("Hello, QR!", output_path="qrcode.png")
img.show()  # Display the QR code
```

### Decode a Standard QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_qr_code

# Accepts file path, PIL.Image.Image, or numpy.ndarray as input
# Example with file path:
data = decode_qr_code("qrcode.png")
print(data)  # Output: Hello, QR!

# Example with PIL Image:
from PIL import Image
img = Image.open("qrcode.png")
data = decode_qr_code(img)
print(data)
```

### Generate a Colored QR Code (RGB)

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_colored_qr_code

data = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog 1234567890!@#"
img = generate_colored_qr_code(data, output_path="colored_qr.png")
img.show()
```

### Decode a Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_colored_qr_code

# Accepts file path, PIL.Image.Image, or numpy.ndarray as input
# Example with file path:
decoded = decode_colored_qr_code("colored_qr.png")
print(decoded)

# Example with PIL Image:
from PIL import Image
img = Image.open("colored_qr.png")
decoded = decode_colored_qr_code(img)
print(decoded)
```

### Generate an Intensity-Modulated (IM) Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import generate_colored_qr_code_im

data = "A long string to encode with high density..."
img = generate_colored_qr_code_im(data, output_path="colored_qr_im.png")
img.show()
```

### Decode an Intensity-Modulated (IM) Colored QR Code

```python
from coloredqrcode import decode_colored_qr_code_im

# Accepts file path, PIL.Image.Image, or numpy.ndarray as input
# Example with file path:
decoded = decode_colored_qr_code_im("colored_qr_im.png")
print(decoded)

# Example with PIL Image:
from PIL import Image
img = Image.open("colored_qr_im.png")
decoded = decode_colored_qr_code_im(img)
print(decoded)
```

## Error Handling

If the input data is too long for the selected QR code type, a `QRCodeDataTooLongError` is raised.

## Requirements

- Python 3.9+
- See `requirements.txt` for dependencies (qrcode, Pillow, pyzbar, opencv-python)

## Testing

Run all tests with:

```sh
.venv/bin/python -m pytest
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
